



None                                                          M. Thomson
Internet-Draft                                                   Mozilla
Intended status: Standards Track                            May 18, 2017
Expires: November 19, 2017


                Your IANA Registry Policy is Too Strict
                    draft-thomson-just-let-go-latest

Abstract

   Strict registration policies for IANA registries are rarely
   advisable.

Status of This Memo

   This Internet-Draft is submitted in full conformance with the
   provisions of BCP 78 and BCP 79.

   Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering
   Task Force (IETF).  Note that other groups may also distribute
   working documents as Internet-Drafts.  The list of current Internet-
   Drafts is at http://datatracker.ietf.org/drafts/current/.

   Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
   and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any
   time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference
   material or to cite them other than as "work in progress."

   This Internet-Draft will expire on November 19, 2017.

Copyright Notice

   Copyright (c) 2017 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the
   document authors.  All rights reserved.

   This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal
   Provisions Relating to IETF Documents
   (http://trustee.ietf.org/license-info) in effect on the date of
   publication of this document.  Please review these documents
   carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions with respect
   to this document.  Code Components extracted from this document must
   include Simplified BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of
   the Trust Legal Provisions and are provided without warranty as
   described in the Simplified BSD License.






Thomson                 Expires November 19, 2017               [Page 1]

Internet-Draft                 Just Let Go                      May 2017


Table of Contents

   1.  Introduction  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   2
   2.  Registries Are Not a Tool for Control . . . . . . . . . . . .   2
   3.  Private and Experimental Use Leaks  . . . . . . . . . . . . .   3
   4.  Consider Provisional Registrations  . . . . . . . . . . . . .   3
   5.  Experts aren't Guardians  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   4
   6.  RFC Required is Rarely Appropriate  . . . . . . . . . . . . .   4
   7.  Security Considerations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   5
   8.  IANA Considerations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   5
   9.  Informative References  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   5
   Author's Address  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   6

1.  Introduction

   Many protocols use the protocol registries that are managed by the
   Internet Assigned Numbers Authority (IANA) [IANA-MOU] to manage the
   allocation of protocol parameters.  When establishing a registry for
   protocol parameters, choosing an appropriate registration policy is
   critical.

   While registries might be perceived as a way of retaining some sort
   of control over use of protocols, stricter policies tend to
   inappropriately constrain protocol deployment and can lead to
   violation of those policies.  A permissive registration policy for
   IANA registries avoids these issues and encourages better use of
   registries.

   This document examines the common registration policies defined in
   RFC 5226 [IANA-CONS] and provides advice on how to define
   appropriately permissive registration policies based using those
   building blocks.

2.  Registries Are Not a Tool for Control

   It is often stated in the defense of a strict registration policy,
   such as Standards Action, that this this is necessary to ensure a
   measure of control over how the protocol develops.  The rationale
   being that use of new codepoints in a given space requires careful
   consideration and discussion and that interoperation would be
   adversely affected by the use of codepoints that are poorly
   specified.

   In practice, choosing stricter registry policies does little to
   discourage the use of codepoints.  On the contrary, a stricter policy
   tends to create externalities.  This can lead to use of codepoints in
   violation of the policy.




Thomson                 Expires November 19, 2017               [Page 2]

Internet-Draft                 Just Let Go                      May 2017


   The primary purpose of a registry is to ensure that incompatible
   semantics are not associated with the same code point.  Avoiding
   registration of codepoints that are in use is highly likely to result
   in interoperability failures.  Thus, interoperability is not served
   by a policy that makes it difficult to register a codepoint.

3.  Private and Experimental Use Leaks

   Many protocols reserve a range of codepoints for "Private Use" or
   "Experimental Use" [IANA-CONS].  The motivation for using these
   policies being that experimentation or proprietary use of extensions
   can be enabled by reserving a portion of the space for codepoints.

   Private and experimental use of protocol extensions can become more
   widely used than originally intended.  Separately, implementations
   might create rules for special treatment of codepoints in these
   spaces.  RFC 6648 [X-DASH] provides more detail on the various issues
   with reserving experimental or private use protocol identifiers.

   Moving a protocol semantic from an established experimental or
   private use codepoint to a new codepoint is difficult.  For
   codepoints that become widely used, this difficulty increases.  The
   success of a protocol extension that is defined in a private or
   experimental use space often leads to long term use of that
   codepoint.

   Avoid using the "Private Use" or "Experimental Use" policies.
   Selecting more lenient registration policies is a better way of
   enabling private use.  Provisional registrations are more appropriate
   for supporting experimentation.

4.  Consider Provisional Registrations

   Some existing registries have a policy that allows provisional
   registration, for example RFC 7595 [URI-REG] or RFC 3864
   [HEADER-REG].  Registrations that are designated "provisional" are
   usually defined as being more readily created, changed, reassigned,
   moved to another status, or even removed.  For instance, RFC 7595
   allows a provisional registration to be made with incomplete
   information.

   Allowing provisional registration ensures that the primary goal of
   maintaining a registry - avoiding collisions between incompatible
   semantics - is preserved without inadvertently creating statements
   about the value of the protocol mechanism that are identified in a
   registry.





Thomson                 Expires November 19, 2017               [Page 3]

Internet-Draft                 Just Let Go                      May 2017


   Provisional registrations for codepoints that are ultimately
   standardized can be promoted to permanent status.  The criteria that
   are defined for marking a provisional registration as permanent could
   be made as strict as desired.

   To support experimentation, provisional registrations could be
   defined as having expiration dates.  However, renewing an expiration
   date should be no harder than the creation of the registration.  If a
   policy allows for explicit removal of registrations, stronger
   controls are advised to avoid accidental or malicious removals.

   A similar system to provisional registration is adopted for TLS
   registries [TLS-REG].  Permissive registration policies are defined
   for the creation of new entries.  TLS registries include a field that
   identifies codepoints as "Recommended".  A Standards Track document
   [IETF-STD] is required in order to mark a codepoint as "Recommended".

5.  Experts aren't Guardians

   The "Expert Review" and "Specification Required" policies rely on
   review of registration applications by a designated expert.  A
   registry that is established without guidance to an expert
   effectively cedes decisions about registration policy to the expert,
   which can lead to arbitrary policy.

   Experts, by their nature, can be predisposed to reject registrations.
   This discourages use of the registry, which can harm
   interoperability.

   If a registry has a designated expert, define a narrow set of
   conditions for rejection of registration applications (see Section 7
   for some simple criteria).  This encourages approval of registrations
   and can made the task of the expert easier.

6.  RFC Required is Rarely Appropriate

   The "RFC Required" policy [IANA-CONS] is often used inappropriately
   as a proxy for another property.

   For example, if the intent is to require community consensus then
   "IETF Consensus", "Standards Action" or possibly "IESG Approval" are
   likely to be more appropriate.  Where the intent is to insist on a
   particular standard of documentation for a specification, then the
   "Specification Required" policy with additional guidance to a
   designated expert can acheive the same end.

   In general, avoid the use of the "RFC Required" policy.




Thomson                 Expires November 19, 2017               [Page 4]

Internet-Draft                 Just Let Go                      May 2017


7.  Security Considerations

   Increased use of limited codepoint spaces is a potential adverse
   outcome of a more lenient registration policy.  For registries with
   designated experts, detecting and blocking this sort of attack can be
   easy.  If a policy includes review from an expert, allowing experts
   to reject registrations that are excessive or duplicative can help.

   To avoid exhaustion of limited space, registries that have limited
   space are advised to avoid the First Come, First Served policy
   [IANA-CONS].

8.  IANA Considerations

   This document makes no request of IANA.

9.  Informative References

   [HEADER-REG]
              Klyne, G., Nottingham, M., and J. Mogul, "Registration
              Procedures for Message Header Fields", BCP 90, RFC 3864,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC3864, September 2004,
              <http://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3864>.

   [IANA-CONS]
              Narten, T. and H. Alvestrand, "Guidelines for Writing an
              IANA Considerations Section in RFCs", BCP 26, RFC 5226,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC5226, May 2008,
              <http://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5226>.

   [IANA-MOU]
              Carpenter, B., Baker, F., and M. Roberts, "Memorandum of
              Understanding Concerning the Technical Work of the
              Internet Assigned Numbers Authority", RFC 2860,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC2860, June 2000,
              <http://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2860>.

   [IETF-STD]
              Bradner, S., "The Internet Standards Process -- Revision
              3", BCP 9, RFC 2026, DOI 10.17487/RFC2026, October 1996,
              <http://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2026>.

   [TLS-REG]  Salowey, J. and S. Turner, "D/TLS IANA Registry Updates",
              draft-ietf-tls-iana-registry-updates-01 (work in
              progress), April 2017.






Thomson                 Expires November 19, 2017               [Page 5]

Internet-Draft                 Just Let Go                      May 2017


   [URI-REG]  Thaler, D., Ed., Hansen, T., and T. Hardie, "Guidelines
              and Registration Procedures for URI Schemes", BCP 35,
              RFC 7595, DOI 10.17487/RFC7595, June 2015,
              <http://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7595>.

   [X-DASH]   Saint-Andre, P., Crocker, D., and M. Nottingham,
              "Deprecating the "X-" Prefix and Similar Constructs in
              Application Protocols", BCP 178, RFC 6648,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC6648, June 2012,
              <http://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6648>.

Author's Address

   Martin Thomson
   Mozilla

   Email: martin.thomson@gmail.com


































Thomson                 Expires November 19, 2017               [Page 6]
